Zero day patch (#1)
openSUSE/salt-test-skiplist: README.md

> This repository contains a list of tests in the Salt Test Suite that are **not** executed. Remember: **Skipping tests is bad and should only be used as a last resort.**

Reviewer: [NIT]: Do we need this? Everyone knows it's bad to skip tests :)) 

```suggestion
This repository contains a list of tests in the Salt Test Suite that are **not** executed.
```

Author: Of course you're right. We can leave it out.

> The list is formatted using the TOML markup language and skipped tests are grouped by file/test level and then by "type". Missing groups do not have to be listed explicitely. The list is used by `salt-test`, a test launcher that skips the collection of files in the `[ignore]` sections and deselects all tests in the `[skip]` section.

Reviewer: [NIT]: Clarity, typo, flow

```suggestion
The list is formatted using the TOML markup language. Skipped tests are grouped by file/test level and then by type. Missing groups do not have to be listed explicitly. 

The list is used by `salt-test`, a test launcher that skips the collection of files in the `[ignore]` sections and deselects all tests in the `[skip]` section.
```

### `ignore` vs `skip`

> Rule of thumb: Use `skip` if you can, `ignore` if you must.

Reviewer: [NIT] Clarity

```suggestion
Prefer `skip` to `ignore`.
```

> Reason: `ignore` skips over a whole Python module (i.e. a file). It's needed when the import of the module causes errors, e.g. `ImportError`. We don't have all of Salt's Python dependencies packaged and need to exclude that's in this manner that don't guard their imports.

Reviewer 2: Is the wording in the last sentence correct here?

Author: No, it's not :facepalm: Good catch!

`skip` has finer granularity and is prefered for that reason.

> ### Adding new entries to `skipped_tests.toml`

Reviewer: Would it make sense to also add a small para on executing the tests? Right now, I don't know how to test them, though maybe that's what Yeray might add later?

Author: Maybe we could link to https://github.com/openSUSE/salt-test#readme

Reviewer: Ah that'd be great, we already say that this is used by "`salt-test`"; instead of making it a code, we could make the salt-test link to the repo.

And I assume we'll later document in `salt-test` how to execute the container.

Author: Why not both, a link that's formatted as code :)

How to run the container (its main purpose is GH Actions but why not run it locally if you want :shrug:) is something we can document in either https://github.com/openSUSE/salt-test or even the https://github.com/openSUSE/salt/wiki :+1:

> This repository is "locked" down to ensure all additions to `skipped_tests.toml` are agreed upon by [openSUSE's Salt team](https://github.com/orgs/openSUSE/teams/salt). Therefore, no commits can be pushed to `main` directly. All changes must come via a Pull Request that is approved by at least two other maintainers. All new entries must include a comment that explains why a given test is failing. The Pull Request description should explain why a test case is not getting fixed and instead added to this skiplist. Pull Request reviewers are asked to critically review this explanation.

Reviewer: [NIT] Simplification. Note that even Github [0] doesn't capitalize pull requests :) 

[0] https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/about-pull-requests

```suggestion
This repository is disallows direct commits to `main` to ensure all additions to `skipped_tests.toml` are agreed upon by [openSUSE's Salt team](https://github.com/orgs/openSUSE/teams/salt). All changes must come via a pull request that is approved by at least two other maintainers. All new entries must include a comment that explains why a given test is failing. The pull request description should explain why a test case is not getting fixed and instead added to this skiplist. Pull request reviewers are asked to critically review this explanation.
```

Author: Wow, I was pretty sure they did. Thanks, I'll change it.

Author: Not that I ever used the German docs, but funnily they do use `Pull Request` https://docs.github.com/de/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request. Maybe it was my German brain thinking it should be title-cased :laughing:

This repository contains a list of tests in the Salt Test Suite that are **not** executed.

The list is formatted using the TOML markup language. Skipped tests are grouped by file/test level and then by type. Missing groups do not have to be listed explicitly.

The list is used by [`salt-test`](https://github.com/openSUSE/salt-test#readme), a test launcher that skips the collection of files in the `[ignore]` sections and deselects all tests in the `[skip]` section.

### `ignore` vs `skip`

Prefer `skip` to `ignore`.
Reason: `ignore` skips over a whole Python module (i.e. a file). It's needed when the import of the module causes errors, e.g. `ImportError`. We don't have all of Salt's Python dependencies packaged and need to exclude files that don't guard their imports.
`skip` has finer granularity and is prefered for that reason.

### Adding new entries to `skipped_tests.toml`

> This repository disallows direct commits to `main` to ensure all additions to `skipped_tests.toml` are agreed upon by [openSUSE's Salt team](https://github.com/orgs/openSUSE/teams/salt). All changes must come via a pull request that is approved by at least two other maintainers. All new entries must include a comment that explains why a given test is failing. The pull request description should explain why a test case is not getting fixed and instead added to this skiplist. Pull request reviewers are asked to critically review this explanation.

Reviewer 3: Maybe it makes sense to additionaly request for some comments to the test listed to skip.
I was trying to identify most common reasons of tests fails and found that at least for limited amount of the test it's better to adjust tests itself. For example: https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/65266. Without this fix some of the teststs are failing just because tests itself are not expecting the presence of optimized pyc files.
So we can understand better the root cause of skipping the test. If there are some chances to remove the skip for the future version it would be nice to have such refs.

Author: Thanks for taking a look at the test failures already! I agree that references in the comments make sense. Do you think that, even tough it's worded generic, this part covers what you're asking for? Would you like to propose an alternative wording to make it clearer?

> All new entries must include a comment that explains why a given test is failing.

tests is bad and should only be used as a last resort.

The list is formatted using the TOML markup language and skipped tests are grouped by file/test level and then by "type". Missing

> groups do  not have t be listed explicitely.

Reviewer 4: Can you please fix the two issues in this line while touching it?
- there are two spaces between `do  not`
- `have t` should probably be `have to`

As an unrelated sidenote, let me add two recommendations when it comes to skipping tests:
- add comments _why_ a specific test gets skipped
- ideally run the skipped tests nevertheless with the expectation that they fails - and bail out if one of them "surprisingly" succeeds. This helps to keep the skip list clean and short.

Author: Whoops, yes of course. I'll fix the typos.

Thanks a lot for taking a look, I didn't expect anyone to do that (yet) :smile: 
I will also update the README.md and include more background information. In the past we used https://github.com/openSUSE/salt-toaster/ to run a salt test suite, but we didn't maintain it properly. We will now go a different route: The test suite comes in an RPM, we install it on VMs with terraform (like we do for everything else in  Uyuni/SUMA) and in a container for GH Actions.

Salt Toaster had a "skiplist" as well, and it grew and grew. I definitely don't want that and like your idea about having comments explaining why each test fails. I think we can nudge ourselves to fix "broken" tests by having a somewhat tedious process to get new things added to this skiplist repository. Explaining why something should be added is part of this process. What I've been doing so far is "collecting" the status quo without looking into the "why". These are the tests we need to get in shape as soon as our work on the "test suite infra" is done. I didn't do it properly though, I missed some failing tests - and created this PR.

We tried the "mark tests xfail" route in Salt Toaster but IIRC we needed to do that in a `conftest.py`. That worked fine until Salt upstream started using their own, heavily modified, `conftest.py`. The current approach is not going that deep into `pytest` configuration, it just calls `pytest` with `--deselect=X` for each entry in `[skip]`. The `[ignore]` is needed to skip whole files, e.g. because Python dependencies are missing. Having a way to mark tests as xfail is nice, but I think we can do without. We need to put in work to shrink this initial skiplist either way.

Reviewer 4: Thanks, the README looks better now :-)

I'd still recommend to have comments for each skipped test (including the initial list, even if this might be difficult). (If you need a BoFH to remove some of the non-commented skiplist entries at random times, tell me ;-)

Also, speaking from experience with the AppArmor unittests, xfail is more than "nice" IMHO, so even if it's difficult to implement, it's worth it. Maybe you can even convince upstream salt to include the xfail handling so that you don't need to carry a patch for conftest.py?

Author: The problem with adding comments right now is that I'd need to go through all entries to find out why they are listed. That's work we want to schedule for later: everything will be reviewed and rectified in code (salt or tests) / commented why it has to stay. I know it's important to do it, but if I'd rather get the testing infrastructure in place first and then look at the test failures in detail later.

> Maybe you can even convince upstream salt to include the xfail handling so that you don't need to carry a patch for conftest.py?

In the past the conftest added the tests to xfail. This list only really makes sense as a downstream amendment: tests can be marked as xfail directly in the test code. Tests that upstream sees as unstable are not what we need to avoid (they take care of those), it's the tests that are only failing for us (with our 87 patches). Sadly it does not seem possible to mark a test as xfail via the `pytest` cli command. If that was the case, I'd definitely use that and not `--deselect`. For the current scope of openSUSE/salt-test, this is sadly out of scope. We might reconsider it in the future though.

Reviewer 4: No worries, I understand that checking the failure reason for > 100 tests in the existing list will take some time. That's why I wrote "recommend" and not "have to" 

That only leaves one question: can you define what "later" means? ;-)

For xfail: Agreed, upstream shouldn't skip tests that need xfail (at least not via a list) - but it would be nice if they'd offer an easy way for downstream to set a list of tests to xfail so that xfail'ing a test would be as easy (or easier) as skipping it.

Author: Later here means after finishing the remaining ~5 tasks for finishing the integration with (test) infrastructure tools used for testing Uyuni.
